[doc] client code of paging operation (#2269)
Azure/typespec-azure: website/src/content/docs/docs/howtos/Generate client libraries/13pagingOperations.mdx

---
title: Paging Operations
---

import { ClientTabs, ClientTabItem } from "@components/client-tabs";

This doc details what emitters will generate for paging operations.

## Using next link to indicate how to get the next page

> Next link is an absolute url that returned by paging operation, which indicate how to get the next page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next link is an absolute url returned by the paging operation, which indicates how to get the next page.
```

> If the response does not return next link, it should be the last page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the response does not return a next link, it indicates the last page of results.
```

> Next link should be annotated in response model with `@nextLink`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next link should be annotated in the response model with `@nextLink`.
```

> There are two ways to indicate the paging operation with `@nextLink`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to indicate a paging operation with `@nextLink`:
```

1. Use `@pagedResult` and `@items` in `Azure.Core` lib.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
op listWithPage(): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

@pagedResult
model UserList {
  @items
  value: User[];

  @nextLink
  nextLink?: url;
}
```

```python
# TODO
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
public PagedIterable<User> listWithPage();
```

</ClientTabs>

> 2. Use `@list` and `@pageItems` in core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use the `@list` and `@pageItems` decorators from TypeSpec core.
```

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

model UserList {
  @pageItems
  value: User[];

  @nextLink
  nextLink?: url;
}
```

```python
# TODO
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
public PagedIterable<User> listWithPage();
```

</ClientTabs>

## Using continuation token to indicate how to get the next page

> Continuation token is a string that returned by paging operation, which could be used as a parameter value for the paging operation to get the next page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A continuation token is a string returned by a paging operation, which is used as a parameter value for the paging operation to get the next page.
```

> If the response does not return continuation token, it should be the last page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the response does not return a continuation token, it indicates the last page of results.
```

> Continuation token should be annotated in one of the request parameter with `@continuationToken`, as well as response model with `@continuationToken`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request parameter that corresponds to the continuation token value in the paging operation should be decorated with `@continuationToken`.  Similarly, the response property that contains the continuation token value should also be decorated with `@continuationToken`.
```

1. Continuation token in query parameter and response body.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(@query @continuationToken token?: string): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

model UserList {
  @pageItems
  value: User[];

  @continuationToken
  nextToken?: string;

> }

Reviewer 2: name matters, as this is a guide.

Azure typically use `continuationToken` for query.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8222a760-8c83-4aca-a251-1c3a1168a19e)

---
title: Paging Operations
---

import { ClientTabs, ClientTabItem } from "@components/client-tabs";

This doc details what emitters will generate for paging operations.

## Using next link to indicate how to get the next page

Next link is an absolute url returned by the paging operation, which indicates how to get the next page.
If the response does not return a next link, it indicates the last page of results.
Next link should be annotated in the response model with `@nextLink`.

There are two ways to indicate a paging operation with `@nextLink`:

1. Use `@pagedResult` and `@items` in `Azure.Core` lib.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
op listWithPage(): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

@pagedResult
model UserList {
  @items
  value: User[];

  @nextLink
  nextLink?: url;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```

    ...
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
public PagedIterable<User> listWithPage();
```

</ClientTabs>

2. Use the `@list` and `@pageItems` decorators from TypeSpec core.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

model UserList {
  @pageItems
  value: User[];

  @nextLink
  nextLink?: url;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```

    ...
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
public PagedIterable<User> listWithPage();
```

</ClientTabs>

## Using continuation token to indicate how to get the next page

A continuation token is a string returned by a paging operation, which is used as a parameter value for the paging operation to get the next page.
If the response does not return a continuation token, it indicates the last page of results.
The request parameter that corresponds to the continuation token value in the paging operation should be decorated with `@continuationToken`. Similarly, the response property that contains the continuation token value should also be decorated with `@continuationToken`.

1. Continuation token in query parameter and response body.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(@query @continuationToken continuationToken?: string): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

model UserList {
  @pageItems
  value: User[];

  @continuationToken
  continuationToken?: string;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: `list_with_page`

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```

    ...
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
NOT_SUPPORTED
```

</ClientTabs>

2. Continuation token in header parameter and response body.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(@header @continuationToken continuationToken?: string): UserList;

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

model UserList {
  @pageItems
  value: User[];

  @continuationToken
  continuationToken?: string;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```

    ...
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
NOT_SUPPORTED
```

</ClientTabs>

3. Continuation token in query parameter and response header.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(@query @continuationToken continuationToken?: string): {
  @header
  @continuationToken
  continuationToken?: string;

  @pageItems
  value: User[];
};

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```

    ...
```

```csharp
// TODO
```

```typescript
// TODO
```

```java
NOT_SUPPORTED
```

</ClientTabs>

4. Continuation token in header parameter and response header.

<ClientTabs>

```typespec
@list
op listWithPage(@query @continuationToken continuationToken?: string): {
  @header
  @continuationToken
  continuationToken?: string;

  @pageItems
  value: User[];
};

model User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}
```

```python
class User(_model_base.Model):
    id: str = rest_field()
    name: str = rest_field()

> def listWithPage(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def list_with_page(self, **kwargs: Any) -> Iterable["_models.User"]:
```
